Documents/Front-End Environment Setup.md, before:

# Front End Environment Setup
This will provide instructions on how to prepare to build the Android app yourself.  
All instructions are for Windows 10


Much of this is from the official React Native install page, so it is recommended to look at that if you have any issues  
[https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)

## Installs
### Node
Install node version 12 or later  
[https://nodejs.org/en/](https://nodejs.org/en/)


If you already have it installed, or after you install, check your version in powershell with `node --version`

### Java JDK
Install a JDK version 8 or newer  
[https://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8/](https://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8/)

### Gradle 
Download a gradle binary  
[https://gradle.org/install/](https://gradle.org/install/)

Extract the .zip file into `C:/Gradle/gradle-{gradle version}/`  
For example the newest version and newest install would be `C:/Gradle/gradle-7.0.1/`  

#### Add Gradle to path variable
1. In windows search, go to "edit environment variables for your account"
2. Click "Environment Variables..." on the bottom right
3. Click on the user variable "Path" and hit "Edit..."
4. Click "New" 
5. Paste a new line `C:/Gradle/gradle-7.0.1/`
6. Hit "OK"

Finally check your gradle by opening a shell and typing `gradle -v`  
It should report back your gradle version if installed correctly

### Android Studio
Download Android Studio  
[https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html)

When you install, check the following options
- Android SDK
- Android SDK Platform
- Android Virtual Device
- Performance (Intel ® HAXM)

### Android SDK
On the Android studio home page, press configure -> SDK Manager  
Go to the "SDK Platforms" tab  
Check the box next to "Show Package Details" in the bottom right corner.  
Expand "Android 10 (Q)" and check  
- Android SDK Platform 29
- Intel x86 Atom_64 System Image

#### Configure the ANDROID_HOME environment variable
1. In windows search, go to "edit environment variables for your account"
2. Click "Environment Variables..." on the bottom right
3. Click new under user variables
4. Add the variable with name `ANDROID_HOME` and value `%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk`
    - If you've chosen a non-default Android sdk location, use that one instad 
5. Hit "OK"

####  Add platform-tools to Path
1. In windows search, go to "edit environment variables for your account"
2. Click "Environment Variables..." on the bottom right
3. Click on the user variable "Path" and hit "Edit..."
4. Click "New" 
5. Paste a new line `%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk\platform-tools`
    - If you've chosen a non-default Android sdk location, use that one instad 
6. Hit "OK"

## Set up Android test device
### Physical Device
To run on a physical device, use this tutorial  
[https://reactnative.dev/docs/running-on-device](https://reactnative.dev/docs/running-on-device)

### Virtual Device
Check your virtual devices in Android Studio  
- First open android studio to its front page  
- Hit "Configure", then "AVD Manager"  
- If there is a virtual device, make sure there is a green play arrow on the Actions column and a Play Store logo in the Play Store column.  
    - If it says "Download" click the word download to install the device
- If you want to make a new device, hit "Create Virtual Device..." 
    - This device must also have the Play Store logo in order for the map to function

## Google Maps API Key
First, create a project and API Key  
[https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/android-api/signup#release-cert](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/android-api/signup#release-cert)  
Make sure to follow all steps on that page to enable Maps API for Android  

Add your API key to `FACReact/android/local.properties`  
The file's contents should just be  
`MAPS_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY`

## Set test server URL
Set the URL to your back end API endpoints in the file `FACReact/App/ServerURL.json `  
If you're running locally, this will just be your computer's IP address  
If not make sure you have a static publically facing IP address where you're running the API endpoints from

## After adding your API Key and Server URL
Make sure you don't accidentally push your keys or server URL by running these two commands in a shell in `/Find-A-Can/`  

`git update-index --assume-unchanged .\FACReact\App\ServerURL.json`
`git update-index --assume-unchanged .\FACReact\android\local.properties`  

This will prevent accidentally adding these to a commit

## Running the app
First enter a powershell or other shell window in the /FACReact/ directory

First run `gradle test`  
This will install all dependencies necessary to build the project

Next run `npx react-native start`  
This will run a tool called Metro that will work as a debug console for the app

Open your Android Virtual Device or connect a physical device with USB debugging enabled

Open another powershell in /FACReact/  
Run `gradle run-android`  
This will compile the app and load it on all running Android devices.  
It will push to both a virtual machine and physical device at the same time if both are connected

In the Metro powershell, press `r` to push the app to the emulator

Use the app!

Commit message:

Adds note on editing files to push build

Documents/Front-End Environment Setup.md, after:

# Front End Environment Setup
This will provide instructions on how to prepare to build the Android app yourself.  
All instructions are for Windows 10


Much of this is from the official React Native install page, so it is recommended to look at that if you have any issues  
[https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)

## Installs
### Node
Install node version 12 or later  
[https://nodejs.org/en/](https://nodejs.org/en/)


If you already have it installed, or after you install, check your version in powershell with `node --version`

### Java JDK
Install a JDK version 8 or newer  
[https://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8/](https://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8/)

### Gradle 
Download a gradle binary  
[https://gradle.org/install/](https://gradle.org/install/)

Extract the .zip file into `C:/Gradle/gradle-{gradle version}/`  
For example the newest version and newest install would be `C:/Gradle/gradle-7.0.1/`  

#### Add Gradle to path variable
1. In windows search, go to "edit environment variables for your account"
2. Click "Environment Variables..." on the bottom right
3. Click on the user variable "Path" and hit "Edit..."
4. Click "New" 
5. Paste a new line `C:/Gradle/gradle-7.0.1/`
6. Hit "OK"

Finally check your gradle by opening a shell and typing `gradle -v`  
It should report back your gradle version if installed correctly

### Android Studio
Download Android Studio  
[https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html)

When you install, check the following options
- Android SDK
- Android SDK Platform
- Android Virtual Device
- Performance (Intel ® HAXM)

### Android SDK
On the Android studio home page, press configure -> SDK Manager  
Go to the "SDK Platforms" tab  
Check the box next to "Show Package Details" in the bottom right corner.  
Expand "Android 10 (Q)" and check  
- Android SDK Platform 29
- Intel x86 Atom_64 System Image

#### Configure the ANDROID_HOME environment variable
1. In windows search, go to "edit environment variables for your account"
2. Click "Environment Variables..." on the bottom right
3. Click new under user variables
4. Add the variable with name `ANDROID_HOME` and value `%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk`
    - If you've chosen a non-default Android sdk location, use that one instad 
5. Hit "OK"

####  Add platform-tools to Path
1. In windows search, go to "edit environment variables for your account"
2. Click "Environment Variables..." on the bottom right
3. Click on the user variable "Path" and hit "Edit..."
4. Click "New" 
5. Paste a new line `%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk\platform-tools`
    - If you've chosen a non-default Android sdk location, use that one instad 
6. Hit "OK"

## Set up Android test device
### Physical Device
To run on a physical device, use this tutorial  
[https://reactnative.dev/docs/running-on-device](https://reactnative.dev/docs/running-on-device)

### Virtual Device
Check your virtual devices in Android Studio  
- First open android studio to its front page  
- Hit "Configure", then "AVD Manager"  
- If there is a virtual device, make sure there is a green play arrow on the Actions column and a Play Store logo in the Play Store column.  
    - If it says "Download" click the word download to install the device
- If you want to make a new device, hit "Create Virtual Device..." 
    - This device must also have the Play Store logo in order for the map to function

## Google Maps API Key
First, create a project and API Key  
[https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/android-api/signup#release-cert](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/android-api/signup#release-cert)  
Make sure to follow all steps on that page to enable Maps API for Android  

Add your API key to `FACReact/android/local.properties`  
The file's contents should just be  
`MAPS_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY`

## Set test server URL
Set the URL to your back end API endpoints in the file `FACReact/App/ServerURL.json `  
If you're running locally, this will just be your computer's IP address  
If not make sure you have a static publically facing IP address where you're running the API endpoints from

## After adding your API Key and Server URL
Make sure you don't accidentally push your keys or server URL by running these two commands in a shell in `/Find-A-Can/`  

`git update-index --assume-unchanged .\FACReact\App\ServerURL.json`  
`git update-index --assume-unchanged .\FACReact\android\local.properties`  

This will prevent accidentally adding these to a commit

## Running the app
First enter a powershell or other shell window in the /FACReact/ directory

First run `gradle test`  
This will install all dependencies necessary to build the project

Next run `npx react-native start`  
This will run a tool called Metro that will work as a debug console for the app

Open your Android Virtual Device or connect a physical device with USB debugging enabled

Open another powershell in /FACReact/  
Run `gradle run-android`  
This will compile the app and load it on all running Android devices.  
It will push to both a virtual machine and physical device at the same time if both are connected

In the Metro powershell, press `r` to push the app to your devices.  
It will automatically do so when you edit and save any of the files in the `/FACReact/App/` folder

Use the app!
