Documents/User Guide.md, before:

# User Guide

This guide will tell you how to get and use this app on your Android phone.

## What is Find A Can?

Find A Can lets you find nearby trash cans on your phone! It's so much easier to throw out things in the right place. Currently only supports the city of Seattle. 

## How to install 

Download the .apk file from the latest release to your phone [https://github.com/Find-A-Can/Find-A-Can/releases](https://github.com/Find-A-Can/Find-A-Can/releases)  
Open the .apk on your phone.  
Android will ask you if you want to install the application  
Hit install and wait a few seconds

This will eventually be replaced with a Google Play download link

## Running the App
Simply open the app like any other from your app drawer or home screen  
Make sure location services are on to use the app to its full potential

## Using Find A Can

### Browse map
When you first open the app, you'll have a map of all sorts of pins. Each pin is a trash recepticle. Scroll around to look all over. Note that if you zoom too far out it will stop displaying pins. Press the re-center button in the top right to go to your location. 

### Find a specific type of can
Have a plastic bottle in your hand that you need to recycle but can't find the right can? Use the filter buttons on the bottom of the screen to only display certain types of cans. 

### Add a new can
Found a trash can we don't have on our map? Hit the "Add" button to add it to our database.  
**Known issues**  
- Only adds garbage cans 
- Adds cans at the center of the map. In the future it will be easier to see where the new can will be placed

### Find nearest can
Want the app to find the nearest can of a certain type for you? Hit the "Find" button and specify the type you're looking for. The app will automatically zoom in on it.  
**Not yet implemented**

## Reporting bugs
If you have any issues, please open a [github issue](https://github.com/Find-A-Can/Find-A-Can/issues).  
Your issue should be labeled Bug  
Provide device name, Android version, and a full description of the issues found

Commit message:

Adds notes on working features in v0.1

Documents/User Guide.md, after:

# User Guide

This guide will tell you how to get and use this app on your Android phone.

## What is Find A Can?

Find A Can lets you find nearby trash cans on your phone! It's so much easier to throw out things in the right place. Currently only supports the city of Seattle. 

## How to install 

Download the .apk file from the latest release to your phone [https://github.com/Find-A-Can/Find-A-Can/releases](https://github.com/Find-A-Can/Find-A-Can/releases)  
Open the .apk on your phone.  
Android will ask you if you want to install the application  
Hit install and wait a few seconds

This will eventually be replaced with a Google Play download link

## Running the App
Simply open the app like any other from your app drawer or home screen  
Make sure location services are on to use the app to its full potential

## Using Find A Can

### Browse map
When you first open the app, you'll have a map of all sorts of pins. Each pin is a trash recepticle. Scroll around to look all over. Note that if you zoom too far out it will stop displaying pins. Press the re-center button in the top right to go to your location. 

### Find a specific type of can
Have a plastic bottle in your hand that you need to recycle but can't find the right can? Use the filter buttons on the bottom of the screen to only display certain types of cans. 
**Does not work as of release v0.1**

### Add a new can
Found a trash can we don't have on our map? Hit the "Add" button to add it to our database.  
**Does not work as of release v0.1**

### Find nearest can
Want the app to find the nearest can of a certain type for you? Hit the "Find" button and specify the type you're looking for. The app will automatically zoom in on it.  
**Not yet implemented**

## Reporting bugs
If you have any issues, please open a [github issue](https://github.com/Find-A-Can/Find-A-Can/issues).  
Your issue should be labeled Bug  
Provide device name, Android version, and a full description of the issues found
